#The page is the setting for Aether and its world.

= Aedar =

The world, where all users interact.  This is the land, water, and sky in the game as a whole.

== Time Setting ==

The game takes place in a early 19th century time period world as far as technology.  There are only simple pistols and the majority of the population can use a sword or knives better. Although players do not need to be constantly reminded of where they are in the technological timeline in comparison to ours, it should be easily inferred throught the game. In Aedar, there are few large cities--only small villages and smaller tribes.  There are tradesmen, few in number (usually one or two per village), but skilled. Some of the more skilled ones will be able to take on an apprentice.

== Overall (land) ==

Although the land of Aedar is vast, there are some key elements that will be broadcasted over the entire land, with little exception.

 * Dark, gloomy aspect.  Not where it comes close to a horror feel, or even thriller. This will be the hardest obsticle to complete for graphics. The feel needs to match that of the landscape (i.e swamps, dark forests, snowy mountain sides).  The atmosphere needs to portray evil is winning but their is a good side fighting it back.  How this is accomplished is the perfect level of a shadow feel covering each landscape.  Dark forests for example should be covered in alot of shadow, yet have light rays breaking through the leaves to not leave the forest completely covered in darkness.

 * Villages, cities, and tribes will have inhabbitents of either Humans or Revenents but not both. Further, the layout of these congregated spots should be grouped in a manner that makes sense. The Human 'outposts' should be grouped together in some fashion (all east of River X) and Revenents will have their own 'area' to inhabbit.  These races will not be restricted to their own areas, so the layouts should look as though they are (at least somewhat) prepared for outsider attack.

 * Churchs of the Human race should be a very common theme among their areas.  Aedar is a different world so the symbols used in the Human faith will be contained in it's own wiki page. Building in cities should have a gothic theme.  Buildings in villages are more commonly built from large trees.  Tents and huts should be found for tribe camps.  Each of these three tier living zones should have a human(good) or revenent(evil) feel while both keeping the extremes in check.

 * Swamps are common in Aedar, as are wooded areas. Next common are mountains.  