#summary How should the game play.

= Introduction =

This page is for fleshing out the game experience, much in the same way of getting the user manual for a roleplaying game, the concepts here should translate a user's manual into an online game experience.  As we develop we should try to incorporate the ideas we discover here.

= Details =

==Floating Text==

All players, non-playable characters, and enemies will have their name in a specific color text displayed above their 3D model(avatar).  For players, those who are in a guild, their guild name will also be displayed under their name in brackets "< _guild_ >" in order to easily distinguish the guild association.  The color coding scheme will be based on a player perspective. Members of the same guild ("Guildies") will be a particular color, where as members of your current party/group will be a different color. From a client perspective, their own characters name is displayed above their character's avatar.  

==Character's and Character development==
Characters get experience by interacting with the world and performing tasks.  Although, experience is traditionally provided by killing, it is not the only nor the most rewarding of receiving experience.  

Tasks that have many milestones before reaching a goal provide the most experience as it shows the effort given to be accomplished.  Experience is given to those which are challenged and not so much to those that easily perform a task.  This means that:
 * Experience is given based on the players current level of experience.
 * The players skill set to accomplish the task
 * Repetitive use of skills to accomplish a task
  * The one skill guy will be better with the one skill if it is the only one used
  * Thus, the skills used are those that are improved


==Quests==
Quest are given most commonly acquired from:
 * A Non-Playable Character (NPC)
 * A book
 * An object in the world
 * Achieving a certain level

Quests will require a 'turn-in' proccess to obtain credit for the completed quest.  The quest will be turned into a NPC, most likely the one that started the guest, otherwise referred to as the Quest Starter.  

Accepting a quest will place it in the players Quest Journal--a quick handy guide to see current accepted quests.  If the player attempts to accept a quest but has too many already, the state of the NPC remains to still offer the quest and the player is forced to remove or complete a quest in progress to provide room.

Quests can be shared to other players only if they are partied or grouped together.  For quests consisting of multiple parts, once the player who has the quest gets past the first part of the quest, that quest is no longer able to be shared to group members.


==Experience==
Experience is used to increase skills, stats, and improve other non-material elements of the player.  Experience can then be transfered into a statistic such as strength to improve the characters strength, to improve the players bow skill, or to learn new spells if the player is capable.